Definition of Data:
 Data is a collection of discrete or continuous values
 *Data is the raw material, while information is what we derive from that data.

Key Characteristics of Data:
 Accuracy, Completeness(完整), Consistency(一致性)
 Timeliness, Uniqueness, Reliability

Quantitative studies rely on numerical or measurable data. 
In contrast, qualitative studies rely on personal accounts or documents that illustrate in detail how people think or respond within society.
定量研究依赖于数字或可测量的数据。
相比之下，定性研究依赖于个人陈述或文件，这些陈述或文件详细说明了人们在社会中的想法或反应。

Quantitative data(定量数据) classified as discrete data or continuous data:
 Discrete data is quantitative data that can only take on certain numerical values.
 Continuous data is a type of quantitative data that represents precise measurements of nearly any numeric value. 
 (连续数据是一种定量数据，表示几乎任何数值的精确度量。)

Qualitative data(定性数据) classified as nominal data or ordinal data:
 Nominal data is qualitative data used to name or label variables without providing numeric values.
 名义型数据是用于命名或标记变量的定性数据，不提供数值。
 Ordinal data is a type of qualitative data that groups variables into descriptive categories. (Ordinal data are categorical (non-numeric) but may use numbers as labels)
 序数数据是一种将变量分组为描述性类别的定性数据。

Standard File Formats:
 Delimited text file formats (.csv)
 Microsoft Excel Open .XML Spreadsheet (.xlsx)
 Extensible Markup Language (.xml)
 Portable Document Format (.pdf)
 JavaScript Object Notation (.json)
------------------------------------------
Data Science

Definition:
 Data science is an interdisciplinary academic field that uses statistics, mathematics, computer science, and machine learning to extract or extrapolate knowledge and insights from potentially noisy, structured, or unstructured data.
 数据科学是一个跨学科的学术领域，它使用统计学、数学、计算机科学和机器学习从潜在的噪声、结构化或非结构化数据中提取或推断知识和见解。

data science process:
 Key steps include problem definition, data understanding, data preparation, modeling, evaluation, and deployment.

Data science tools:
 Spreadsheet Software:Microsoft Excel, Google Sheets, and Apple Numbers
 Business Intelligence (BI) Platforms:Microsoft Power BI, Tableau, and Looker
 Programming Languages and Libraries:Programming languages like Python, along with their associated libraries (e.g., NumPy, Pandas, SciPy, scikit-learn, Pytorch, Tensorflow, Matplotlib)

Data Engineering:
 Definition: Data engineering involves the collection, organization, and processing of data to make it accessible, usable, and meaningful.
 Language: Query Language(SQL),Programming Language(Python)

Data Collection:
 Common source of data:
  Relational Databases: Store structured data 
  APIs and Web Services
  Web Scraping: Extract relevant data from unstructured sources
  lat files and XML Databases

Data Processing:
 Data Processing Methods: 
  Manual Data Processing
  Mechanical Data Processing: can include simple devices such as calculators, typewriters, printing presses, etc.
  Electronic Data Processing

Data Analysis:
 descriptive, diagnostic, exploratory, inferential, predictive, causal, mechanistic, and prescriptive.
 描述性、诊断性、探索性、推理性、预测性、因果性、机械性和规定性。
  1.Descriptive Analysis: describe or summarize a set of data.
  2.Diagnostic Analysis(explain anomalies): answer the question “Why did this happen?” by taking a more in-depth look at data to uncover subtle patterns.
  3.Exploratory Analysis: examining or exploring data and finding relationships between variables that were previously unknown
   It’s useful for discovering new connections and forming hypotheses(假说)
  4.Inferential Analysis: using a small sample of data to infer information about a larger population of data
  5.Predictive Analysis: using historical or current data to find patterns and make predictions about the future
   depends on the input variables, Accuracy also depends on the types of models
  6.Causal Analysis: looks at the cause and effect of relationships between variables and is focused on finding the cause of a correlation(相关性)
  7.Mechanistic Analysis: understand exact changes in variables that lead to other changes in other variables
  8.Prescriptive Analysis: compiles insights from other previous data analyses and determines actions that teams or companies can take to prepare for predicted trends

Data Visualization:
 1.Advantages:
  Easily sharing information.
  nteractively explore opportunities.
  Visualize patterns and relationships.
 Disadvantages:  
  Biased or inaccurate information.
  Correlation doesn’t always mean causation.
  Core messages can get lost in translation.

Data Science Methodology
 It is a structured approach that guides data scientists and solving complex problems and making data-driven decisions.
 它是一种结构化的方法，可指导数据科学家解决复杂问题并做出数据驱动的决策
 10 stages:
  1.Business Understanding: Clarify the problem and goals
  2.Analytic Approach: 
   Translate business problems into a set of well-defined data science problems.
   Based on the above business understanding one should decide the analytical approach to follow.
  3.Data Requirements:Identifying the Data Needs, Data Availability and Quality
  4.Data Collection: Gathering the Data(collect and combine), Data Storage
  5.Data Understanding: 
   Exploratory Data Analysis(Use statistical analysis and visualization tools,Summarize key attributes)
   Data Integrity(完整性) Issues
  6.Data preparation: 
   Cleaning and Transforming the Data(may create new ones)
   Splitting the Dataset(training, validation, and test sets )
  7.Modeling: Model Selection and Development, Hyperparameter Tuning(超参数优化)
  8.Evaluation: 
   Model Evaluation Metrics(指标):accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, and other metrics; aligning(调整) its outputs with expected business results
   Model Robustness(鲁棒性) and Fairness
  9.Deployment(部署): 
   Integrate the model into production systems,ensuring seamless operation(无缝运行);
   Model Maintenance and Updates
  10.Feedback

Applications of Data Science:
 Business and Marketing,Healthcare,Finance and Banking,
 Transportation and Logistics,Energy,Government and Public Policy